activities/group-meetings.md, before:

---
layout: page
title:
subtitle:
use-site-title: false
---
![MLCS-Logo](/img/mlcs_logo_small.png){: .center-block :}

# Group Meetings

Besides updating each other on the latest from our individual projects,
we try to get young scientists from other research groups to come and
share their work with us. 

Currently our group meetings take place every Friday at 10 am CEST and
goes on till around 12 noon. Since the beginning of November 2020, the
meetings are entirely on Zoom. 

**Topic:** MLCS Group Meeting  
**Time:** Fridays, 10 am CEST  
**Join Zoom Meeting:** [Send email](mailto:bedartha.goswami@uni-tuebingen.de)

***

## Upcoming

+ **7 May 2021**  
**Application of edit distance method to recurrence plot and climate network**  
[Abhirup Banerjee](https://www.pik-potsdam.de/members/banerjee)  
[Complexity Science, PIK Potsdam](https://www.pik-potsdam.de/en/institute/departments/complexity-science)  

+ **14 May 2021**  
**Ensemble Prediction**  
[Online Public Lecture by Tim Palmer](https://youtu.be/_mm3d1bv9Kw)  
[Perspectives Climate](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCjgGryoHE55uAhZTDpw8xOg)  

+ **21 May 2021**  
_TBA_  

+ **28 May 2021**  
__TBA__  
[Giorgia Di Capua](https://www.pik-potsdam.de/members/dicapua/homepage)  
[ESMO, PIK
Potsdam](https://www.pik-potsdam.de/en/institute/departments/earth-system-analysis/research/earth-system-modes-of-operation)  

+ **4 June 2021**  
_TBA_  

+ **11 June 2021**  
_TBA_  

+ **18 June 2021**  
_TBA_  

+ **25 June 2021**  
_TBA_  


***

## Past Meetings

+ _30 April 2021_  
_vEGU 2021_
+ _23 April 2021_  
_vEGU 2021_
+ **16 April 2021**  
**Trial Talks for #vEGU2021**  
[Presentation by Members of MLCS](https://machineclimate.de/about/our-group/#team)
+ **9 April 2021, 9 AM CEST (!)**  
**Developing a novel hydrological proxy from trace metals in stalagmites**  
[Sebastian Höpker](https://wegeochem.com/students-and-visitors/#seb-hoepker)  
[Waikato Environmental Geochemistry](https://wegeochem.com/)
+ _2 April 2021_  
_Good Friday_
+ **26 March 2021**  
**Collective learning for a sustainable future**  
[Wolfram Barfuss](https://wbarfuss.github.io/)  
[School of Mathematics, University of Leeds](https://eps.leeds.ac.uk/maths)  
+ **19 March 2021, 16:00 CET (!)**  
**Fingerprint of volcanic forcing on the ENSO-Indian Monsoon coupling**  
[Manmeet Singh](https://www.tropmet.res.in/119-Manmeet%20%20Singh-scientist_detail)  
[IITM Pune](https://www.tropmet.res.in/index.php)  
+ **12 March 2021**  
**Generative adversarial training for simulation-based inference**  
[Poornima Ramesh]()  
[Machine Learning in
Science](https://uni-tuebingen.de/en/fakultaeten/mathematisch-naturwissenschaftliche-fakultaet/fachbereiche/informatik/lehrstuehle/machine-learning-in-science/start/)
+ **5 March 2021**  
**At the intersection of climate science, machine learning and Earth system dynamics**  
[Sebastian Mutz](http://mutz.science/)  
[Palaeoclimate and Climate Dynamics Jr. Research group](https://uni-tuebingen.de/en/164926)  
+ **26 February 2021**  
**Variations of wind convergence in context of ITCZ**  
[Lea Elsemüller](https://machineclimate.de/people/elsemueller/)  
[Machine Learning in Climate Science](https://machineclimate.de/)
+ **19 February 2021**  
**Constraining ice shelf basalt melt rates from isochrone data**  
[Vjeran
Visnjevic](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Vjeran_Visnjevic)  
[Glaciology and Geophysics Group](https://uni-tuebingen.de/en/147612)
+ **12 February 2021**  
**A brief introduction to recurrence plot based analysis**  
[Bedartha Goswami](https://machineclimate.de/people/goswami/)  
[Machine Learning in Climate Science](https://machineclimate.de/)
+ **5 February 2021**  
**Impact of strong El Niño events on river discharge in South America**  
[Markus Deppner](https://machineclimate.de/people/deppner/)  
[Machine Learning in Climate Science](https://machineclimate.de/)
+ **29 January 2021**  
**An Introduction to Digital Soil Mapping**  
[Ruhollah Taghizadeh-Mehrjardi](https://uni-tuebingen.de/en/113420)  
[Department of Soil Science and Geomorphology](https://uni-tuebingen.de/en/104517)
+ **22 January 2021**  
**How Artificial Intelligence could help mitigate climate change**  
[Online Public Lecture](https://youtu.be/HEw3xhTMnp0)  
[Climate Change AI](https://www.climatechange.ai/)
+ **15 January 2021**  
**Disentangling the latent space representation of Pacific sea surface
temperature anomalies**  
[Jakob Schlör](https://mlcs.github.io/people/schloer/)  
[Machine Learning in Climate Science](https://mlcs.github.io/about-mlcs/)
+ **8 January 2021**  
**Analyzing the monsoon by networks of extreme rainfall events**  
[Felix Strnad](https://mlcs.github.io/people/strnad/)  
[Machine Learning in Climate Science](https://mlcs.github.io/about-mlcs/)
+ _1 January 2021_  
_New Year_
+ _25 December 2020_  
_Christmas_
+ **18 December 2020**  
**Laplace Matching for generalized linear models**  
[Marius Hobbhahn](http://www.mariushobbhahn.com/)  
[Methods of Machine Learning](http://mml.inf.uni-tuebingen.de)
+ **11 December 2020**  
**Modeling Spatiotemporal Dynamics with a Neural Network Architecture**  
[Matthias Karlbauer](https://uni-tuebingen.de/en/153126)  
[Neuro-Cognitive Modeling Group](https://uni-tuebingen.de/en/25369)
+ **4 December 2020**  
**Uncovering the inductive bias of NetGAN**  
[Luca Rendsburg](https://www.tml.cs.uni-tuebingen.de/team/rendsburg/index.php)  
[Theory of Machine Learning](https://www.tml.cs.uni-tuebingen.de/index.php)
+ **27 November 2020**  
**Probabilistic models in network analysis**  
[Martina Contisciani](https://is.tuebingen.mpg.de/person/mcontisciani)  
[Physics for Inference and Optimization](https://www.cdebacco.com/)
+ **20 November 2020**  
**Gaussian Processes for parameter estimation of PDEs**  
[Thomas Gläßle](https://github.com/coldfix/)  
[Methods of Machine Learning](http://mml.inf.uni-tuebingen.de)
+ **13 November 2020**  
**Update on projects**  
Markus Deppner, Lea Elsemueller  
MLCS

***

Commit message:

group meetings -> added new talks

activities/group-meetings.md, after:

---
layout: page
title:
subtitle:
use-site-title: false
---
![MLCS-Logo](/img/mlcs_logo_small.png){: .center-block :}

# Group Meetings

Besides updating each other on the latest from our individual projects,
we try to get young scientists from other research groups to come and
share their work with us. 

Currently our group meetings take place every Friday at 10 am CEST and
goes on till around 12 noon. Since the beginning of November 2020, the
meetings are entirely on Zoom. 

**Topic:** MLCS Group Meeting  
**Time:** Fridays, 10 am CEST  
**Join Zoom Meeting:** [Send email](mailto:bedartha.goswami@uni-tuebingen.de)

***

## Upcoming

+ **14 May 2021**  
**Ensemble Prediction**  
[Online Public Lecture by Tim Palmer](https://youtu.be/_mm3d1bv9Kw)  
[Perspectives Climate](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCjgGryoHE55uAhZTDpw8xOg)  

+ **21 May 2021**  
_TBA_  

+ **28 May 2021**  
__TBA__  
[Giorgia Di Capua](https://www.pik-potsdam.de/members/dicapua/homepage)  
[ESMO, PIK
Potsdam](https://www.pik-potsdam.de/en/institute/departments/earth-system-analysis/research/earth-system-modes-of-operation)

+ **4 June 2021**  
_TBA_
[Christian Fröhlich]()  
[Working group]()

+ **11 June 2021**  
_TBA_

+ **18 June 2021**  
_IMPRS Boot Camp_

+ **25 June 2021**  
_TBA_

+ **2 July 2021**  
**Interpretable neural networks to identify which density Information
determines the state of the AMOC**  
[Björn Mayer
](https://www.ifm.uni-hamburg.de/en/institute/staff/mayerbjoern.html)  
[Climate Modelling, Institute of Oceanography, Universität
Hamburg](https://www.ifm.uni-hamburg.de/en/workareas/climatemodelling.html)


***

## Past Meetings

+ **7 May 2021**  
**Application of edit distance method to recurrence plot and climate network**  
[Abhirup Banerjee](https://www.pik-potsdam.de/members/banerjee)  
[Complexity Science, PIK Potsdam](https://www.pik-potsdam.de/en/institute/departments/complexity-science)  
+ _30 April 2021_  
_vEGU 2021_
+ _23 April 2021_  
_vEGU 2021_
+ **16 April 2021**  
**Trial Talks for #vEGU2021**  
[Presentation by Members of MLCS](https://machineclimate.de/about/our-group/#team)
+ **9 April 2021, 9 AM CEST (!)**  
**Developing a novel hydrological proxy from trace metals in stalagmites**  
[Sebastian Höpker](https://wegeochem.com/students-and-visitors/#seb-hoepker)  
[Waikato Environmental Geochemistry](https://wegeochem.com/)
+ _2 April 2021_  
_Good Friday_
+ **26 March 2021**  
**Collective learning for a sustainable future**  
[Wolfram Barfuss](https://wbarfuss.github.io/)  
[School of Mathematics, University of Leeds](https://eps.leeds.ac.uk/maths)  
+ **19 March 2021, 16:00 CET (!)**  
**Fingerprint of volcanic forcing on the ENSO-Indian Monsoon coupling**  
[Manmeet Singh](https://www.tropmet.res.in/119-Manmeet%20%20Singh-scientist_detail)  
[IITM Pune](https://www.tropmet.res.in/index.php)  
+ **12 March 2021**  
**Generative adversarial training for simulation-based inference**  
[Poornima Ramesh]()  
[Machine Learning in
Science](https://uni-tuebingen.de/en/fakultaeten/mathematisch-naturwissenschaftliche-fakultaet/fachbereiche/informatik/lehrstuehle/machine-learning-in-science/start/)
+ **5 March 2021**  
**At the intersection of climate science, machine learning and Earth system dynamics**  
[Sebastian Mutz](http://mutz.science/)  
[Palaeoclimate and Climate Dynamics Jr. Research group](https://uni-tuebingen.de/en/164926)  
+ **26 February 2021**  
**Variations of wind convergence in context of ITCZ**  
[Lea Elsemüller](https://machineclimate.de/people/elsemueller/)  
[Machine Learning in Climate Science](https://machineclimate.de/)
+ **19 February 2021**  
**Constraining ice shelf basalt melt rates from isochrone data**  
[Vjeran
Visnjevic](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Vjeran_Visnjevic)  
[Glaciology and Geophysics Group](https://uni-tuebingen.de/en/147612)
+ **12 February 2021**  
**A brief introduction to recurrence plot based analysis**  
[Bedartha Goswami](https://machineclimate.de/people/goswami/)  
[Machine Learning in Climate Science](https://machineclimate.de/)
+ **5 February 2021**  
**Impact of strong El Niño events on river discharge in South America**  
[Markus Deppner](https://machineclimate.de/people/deppner/)  
[Machine Learning in Climate Science](https://machineclimate.de/)
+ **29 January 2021**  
**An Introduction to Digital Soil Mapping**  
[Ruhollah Taghizadeh-Mehrjardi](https://uni-tuebingen.de/en/113420)  
[Department of Soil Science and Geomorphology](https://uni-tuebingen.de/en/104517)
+ **22 January 2021**  
**How Artificial Intelligence could help mitigate climate change**  
[Online Public Lecture](https://youtu.be/HEw3xhTMnp0)  
[Climate Change AI](https://www.climatechange.ai/)
+ **15 January 2021**  
**Disentangling the latent space representation of Pacific sea surface
temperature anomalies**  
[Jakob Schlör](https://mlcs.github.io/people/schloer/)  
[Machine Learning in Climate Science](https://mlcs.github.io/about-mlcs/)
+ **8 January 2021**  
**Analyzing the monsoon by networks of extreme rainfall events**  
[Felix Strnad](https://mlcs.github.io/people/strnad/)  
[Machine Learning in Climate Science](https://mlcs.github.io/about-mlcs/)
+ _1 January 2021_  
_New Year_
+ _25 December 2020_  
_Christmas_
+ **18 December 2020**  
**Laplace Matching for generalized linear models**  
[Marius Hobbhahn](http://www.mariushobbhahn.com/)  
[Methods of Machine Learning](http://mml.inf.uni-tuebingen.de)
+ **11 December 2020**  
**Modeling Spatiotemporal Dynamics with a Neural Network Architecture**  
[Matthias Karlbauer](https://uni-tuebingen.de/en/153126)  
[Neuro-Cognitive Modeling Group](https://uni-tuebingen.de/en/25369)
+ **4 December 2020**  
**Uncovering the inductive bias of NetGAN**  
[Luca Rendsburg](https://www.tml.cs.uni-tuebingen.de/team/rendsburg/index.php)  
[Theory of Machine Learning](https://www.tml.cs.uni-tuebingen.de/index.php)
+ **27 November 2020**  
**Probabilistic models in network analysis**  
[Martina Contisciani](https://is.tuebingen.mpg.de/person/mcontisciani)  
[Physics for Inference and Optimization](https://www.cdebacco.com/)
+ **20 November 2020**  
**Gaussian Processes for parameter estimation of PDEs**  
[Thomas Gläßle](https://github.com/coldfix/)  
[Methods of Machine Learning](http://mml.inf.uni-tuebingen.de)
+ **13 November 2020**  
**Update on projects**  
Markus Deppner, Lea Elsemueller  
MLCS

***
