---
layout: page
title:
subtitle:
use-site-title: false
---
![MLCS-Logo](/img/mlcs_logo_small.png){: .center-block :}
![Funding-Sources-Logos](/img/utue_coe_logos.png){: .center-block :}

**"Machine Learning in Climate Science" (MLCS)** is an independent
junior research group established in January 2020 within the framework
of the [Cluster of Excellence "Machine
Learning"](https://www.ml-in-science.uni-tuebingen.de) at the [University
of Tübingen](https://uni-tuebingen.de/).

MLCS aims to understand the interactions between different components of
the climate system based on present-day and paleoclimatic data sets,
used along with the output of climate models. Climatic phenomena of
interest include the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO), the Global
Monsoon (GM), and the Inter-Tropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ). The
changes in the state of these climatic systems are consequential to
people all around the planet, and they inform global socio-economic
decisions at all levels of societal organization. The ideas we use to
infer nontrivial features from climatic data fall broadly under the
category of Machine Learning (ML) approaches, which are evidently suited
to the task: to identify, classify, and predict complex patterns.

### Contact

To get regular updates about the activities of the group, you can
subscribe to our [RSS feed](https://mlcs.github.io/feed.xml), follow us
on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/MachineClimate) and
[Github](https://github.com/mlcs), or simply send us an
[email](mailto:machinelearning.climatescience@protonmail.com).

If you are in Tübingen, then simply come by and say hello. We are
located on the 4th floor of the [AI Research
Building](https://www.openstreetmap.org/way/601132358) at
Maria-von-Linden-Str. 6.


