work-with-us.md, before:

---
layout: page
title:
subtitle:
use-site-title: false
---
![MLCS-Logo](/img/mlcs_logo_small.png){: .center-block :}

MLCS welcomes highly motivated researchers at all stages of their
careers to tackle challenging problems in climate science. A background
in Computer Science, Physics, or Mathematics is ideal but not necessary.
Feel free to [contact us](https://mlcs.github.io/about-mlcs/#contact) if
you want to work with us at the interface of machine learning and
climate.

## Doctoral and postdoctoral projects

Please send a brief summary of your background and research interests
(in one page), a rough sketch of the research questions that you would
like to work on (also in one page), and brief CV. Also keep in mind that
applications to third-party funding may be necessary.

## Bachelors and Masters theses projects

Please send a brief summary of your university background, the courses
you have taken, and research experience, if any. If you already have a
research topic or question in mind, write a brief paragraph about it.
Otherwise, we also have a running list of potential Bachelors and
Masters thesis--level project ideas at this link.

Commit message:

update work-with-us -> project ideas

work-with-us.md, after:

---
layout: page
title:
subtitle:
use-site-title: false
---
![MLCS-Logo](/img/mlcs_logo_small.png){: .center-block :}

MLCS welcomes highly motivated researchers at all stages of their
careers to tackle challenging problems in climate science. A background
in Computer Science, Physics, or Mathematics is ideal but not necessary.
Feel free to [contact us](https://mlcs.github.io/about-mlcs/#contact) if
you want to work with us at the interface of machine learning and
climate.

## Doctoral and postdoctoral projects

Please send a brief summary of your background and research interests
(in one page), a rough sketch of the research questions that you would
like to work on (also in one page), and brief CV. Also keep in mind that
applications to third-party funding may be necessary.

## Bachelors and Masters theses projects

Please send a brief summary of your university background, the courses
you have taken, and research experience, if any. If you already have a
research topic or question in mind, write a brief paragraph about it.
Otherwise, we also have a running list of potential Bachelors and
Masters thesis--level project ideas which we would love to discuss with
you.
