---
layout: page
title:
subtitle:
use-site-title: false
---
![MLCS-Logo](/img/mlcs_logo_small.png){: .center-block :}

***

We currently have two doctoral projects and a third one that will start
in Fall of 2021. Additionally, we have a couple of undergrad projects
and a third one set to start in spring. Below we provide brief summaries
of these projects going on the group.

[Doctoral Projects](#doctoral-projects)  
[Undergrad projects](#undergrad-projects)  

***

## Doctoral projects

### Predicting Sea Surface Temperature Patterns in the Pacific Ocean
#### [Jakob Schlör](https://machineclimate.de/people/schloer/)

The most dominant mode of oceanic climate variability on an interdecadel
scale is the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO). ENSO events are
characterized by the anomalous sea surface temperatures (SSTs) in the
equatorial Pacific. Large anomalies in this region are known to have
high impact on global climate, as for instance, intense rainfall over
Peru and droughts and wildfires in Northern Australia during the ENSO
warm phase, known as El Niño. Although ENSO is an important climate
phenomena, its cause and variability is not yet fully understood, which
makes it hard for climate models to capture and predict its occurrence.
In this project, we aim to forecast the equatorial SST anomaly patterns
in the Pacific based on a data driven approach used together with
probabilistic generative models (PGMs). PGMs allow us to make spatial
and temporal predictions with uncertainties as well as reveal insights
into underlying drivers of the modeled phenomenon. Our final goal is to
be able to provide local SST forecasts from a global perspective.

![SSTA-2016](/img/ssta_elnino_2016.png){: style="float: right"}


### Analyzing the Monsoon Dynamics by Complex Networks
#### [Felix Strnad](https://machineclimate.de/people/strnad/)

Analyzing rainfall events reveals areas on every continent that reveal
similar behaviour: Heavy rainfalls during metereological summer and
drier conditions during metereological winter. These areas are labelled
as monsoon systems. In the last years, the phenomena has emerged as the concept of the Global Monsoon (GM), a global-scale solstitial mode that drives the annual variation of
tropical and subtropical precipitation. However, its underlying
dynamical behavior and interconnections to other global scale weather
systems is so far not fully understood.  We want to investigate the
dynamics of the GM via methods from complex network analysis and
Bayesian Inference. By better understanding the common/different
variabilities in monsoon dynamics we hope to provide reliable estimates
of the consequences of global climate change to the monsoon system. 
Complex Climate Networks of extreme rainfall events can tell us a lot about synchronization of rainfall events over long-range spatial  distances. We use it to better understand the physical mechanisms behind these long-range spatial teleconnections.

![GM-def](/img/climate_network_links.png){: .center-block :}

## Undergrad Projects

### Impact of strong El Niño events on river discharge in South America 
#### [Markus Deppner](https://machineclimate.de/people/deppner/) (Bachelor's Thesis)

The El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is one of the most influential
climate patterns in terms of climate variability around the globe and
yet all its impacts are not fully understood. This project investigates
the magnitude of El Niño (EN)  events on river discharge in South
America as EN-related floods can cause ecological, economical and
social problems in many regions around the continent. By applying
machine learning techniques on the “Global Streamflow Indices and
Metadata archive” (GSIM) we plan to extend the amount of in situ
stations for a 40 year timespan by almost three-fold. The idea is to
infer  missing streamflow data by using the temporal correlations of
stations with missing values to others with data. This approach provides
a possible solution for the problems of scattered data and in situ
stations temporarily fading in and out, which makes large-scale
hydrological research challenging.

![DISCH-SA](/img/discharge_stations_southamerica.png){: .center-block :}
