people/former_members.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Former Members
---

# Masters Students

### Julia Hellmig

Julia completed her Masters thesis on **Spatio-Temporal Patterns of
European Heat Waves and Their Influence on Vegetation** in July 2022.

#### Research Interests
- Climate Data Analysis
- Extreme Climate Events
- Supervised and unsupervised learning
- Clustering
- Convolutional Neural Networks

[Link to Julia's Masters Thesis](/files/masters_thesis_hellmig_julia.pdf)

### Lea Elsemüller

Lea completed her Masters thesis on **Quantifying the Intertropical
Convergence Zone using wind convergences** in November 2021.

[Twitter](https://twitter.com/lea_else)


#### Research Interests

+ Climate data analysis
+ ITCZ analysis and prediction
+ Deep neural network
+ Bayesian inference
+ Supervised and unsupervised learning

[Link to Lea's Masters Thesis](/files/masters_thesis_elsemueller_lea.pdf)

# Bachelors Students

### Davide Lussu

![DL-ProfilePic](/img/dl_profile_pic.png){: .center-block :}

Davide completed his Bachelor's thesis on **Machine Learning Methods to
Model Monthly Precipitation over the Western Mediterranean Using Climate
Indices** in July 2022.

#### Research Interests
- Precipitation in the Mediterranean
- Teleconnections of atmospheric oscillation indices (such as NAO)
- Regression modeling using
    - Statistical ML methods
    - Artificial Neural Networks/MLP

[Link to Davide's Bachelor's Thesis](/files/bachelors_thesis_lussu_davide.pdf)

### Jakob Unterholzner

Jakob completed his Bachelor's thesis on **Spatial and frequency dependence of westerly
wind events causing ENSO diversity** in June 2022

#### Research Interests
- Climate Data Analyses
- El Nino Southern Oscillation diversity, especially atmospheric precursers
- Causal Inference methods(Regression, PCMCI Algorithm)

[Link to Jakob's Bachelor's Thesis](/files/bachelors_thesis_unterholzner_jakob.pdf)

### Alexej Onken
Alexej completed his Bachelor's thesis on the **Evolution of ENSO
precipitation teleconnections** in March 2022.

[Link to Alexej's Bachelors Thesis](/files/bachelors_thesis_onken_alexej.pdf)

### Markus Deppner

![MD-ProfilePic](/img/md_profile_pic.png){: .center-block :}

Markus completed his Bachelors thesis project on **ENSO impact on river
discharge in South America** in October 2021. 

#### Research Interests

+ General climate data analysis
+ Impacts and connections of the El Niño Southern Oscillation
+ Interactions between climatic systems
+ Probabilistic Models (Gaussian Process Regression)
+ Data reconstruction and prediction

[Link to Markus's Bachelors Thesis](/files/bachelors_thesis_deppner_markus.pdf)


# Administrative Staff


![ES-ProfilePic](/img/es_profile_pic.png){: .center-block :}

## CV

I obtained both my BA in Literature and my MA in Media Studies at the
University of Milan, Italy. After working for two Italian publishers, I
moved to Germany, where I worked as a project manager for a translation
company. In September 2020, I joined the Cluster of Excellence “Machine
Learning.” In my free time I teach Italian (my native language), read
and cook a lot and travel whenever I can.  Recently, I have started to
take interest in sustainable fashion.

Commit message:

move Benedict to Former Members

people/former_members.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Former Members
---

# Masters Students

### Benedict Röder

![BR-ProfilePic](/img/br_profile_pic.png){: .center-block :}

Benedict completed his Master's thesis on **Parameter Inference and
Uncertainty Quantification for an intermediate complexity climate
model** in August 2022.

#### Research Interests

I'm a computer science student currently working on my master's thesis.
- Hybrid Machine Learning / Physics-informed Machine Learning
- Modelling and predicting the El Niño Southern Oscillation
- Reinforcement Learning
- Robotics

[Link to Benedict's Masters
Thesis](/files/masters_thesis_toeder_benedict.pdf)


### Julia Hellmig

Julia completed her Master's thesis on **Spatio-Temporal Patterns of
European Heat Waves and Their Influence on Vegetation** in July 2022.

#### Research Interests
- Climate Data Analysis
- Extreme Climate Events
- Supervised and unsupervised learning
- Clustering
- Convolutional Neural Networks

[Link to Julia's Masters Thesis](/files/masters_thesis_hellmig_julia.pdf)

### Lea Elsemüller

Lea completed her Masters thesis on **Quantifying the Intertropical
Convergence Zone using wind convergences** in November 2021.

[Twitter](https://twitter.com/lea_else)


#### Research Interests

+ Climate data analysis
+ ITCZ analysis and prediction
+ Deep neural network
+ Bayesian inference
+ Supervised and unsupervised learning

[Link to Lea's Masters Thesis](/files/masters_thesis_elsemueller_lea.pdf)

# Bachelors Students

### Davide Lussu

![DL-ProfilePic](/img/dl_profile_pic.png){: .center-block :}

Davide completed his Bachelor's thesis on **Machine Learning Methods to
Model Monthly Precipitation over the Western Mediterranean Using Climate
Indices** in July 2022.

#### Research Interests
- Precipitation in the Mediterranean
- Teleconnections of atmospheric oscillation indices (such as NAO)
- Regression modeling using
    - Statistical ML methods
    - Artificial Neural Networks/MLP

[Link to Davide's Bachelor's Thesis](/files/bachelors_thesis_lussu_davide.pdf)

### Jakob Unterholzner

Jakob completed his Bachelor's thesis on **Spatial and frequency dependence of westerly
wind events causing ENSO diversity** in June 2022

#### Research Interests
- Climate Data Analyses
- El Nino Southern Oscillation diversity, especially atmospheric precursers
- Causal Inference methods(Regression, PCMCI Algorithm)

[Link to Jakob's Bachelor's Thesis](/files/bachelors_thesis_unterholzner_jakob.pdf)

### Alexej Onken
Alexej completed his Bachelor's thesis on the **Evolution of ENSO
precipitation teleconnections** in March 2022.

[Link to Alexej's Bachelors Thesis](/files/bachelors_thesis_onken_alexej.pdf)

### Markus Deppner

![MD-ProfilePic](/img/md_profile_pic.png){: .center-block :}

Markus completed his Bachelors thesis project on **ENSO impact on river
discharge in South America** in October 2021. 

#### Research Interests

+ General climate data analysis
+ Impacts and connections of the El Niño Southern Oscillation
+ Interactions between climatic systems
+ Probabilistic Models (Gaussian Process Regression)
+ Data reconstruction and prediction

[Link to Markus's Bachelors Thesis](/files/bachelors_thesis_deppner_markus.pdf)


# Administrative Staff


![ES-ProfilePic](/img/es_profile_pic.png){: .center-block :}

## CV

I obtained both my BA in Literature and my MA in Media Studies at the
University of Milan, Italy. After working for two Italian publishers, I
moved to Germany, where I worked as a project manager for a translation
company. In September 2020, I joined the Cluster of Excellence “Machine
Learning.” In my free time I teach Italian (my native language), read
and cook a lot and travel whenever I can.  Recently, I have started to
take interest in sustainable fashion.
