---
layout: page
title:
subtitle:
use-site-title: false
---
![MLCS-Logo](/img/mlcs_logo_small.png){: .center-block :}
![Funding-Sources-Logos](/img/utue_coe_logos.png){: .center-block :}

#### test


**"Machine Learning in Climate Science" (MLCS)** is an independent
junior research group established in January 2020 within the [Cluster of
Excellence "Machine
Learning"](https://www.ml-in-science.uni-tuebingen.de){:target="_blank"}
at the [University of
Tübingen](https://uni-tuebingen.de/){:target="_blank"}.

MLCS aims to understand the interactions between different components of
the climate system based on present-day and paleoclimatic data sets used
along with the output of climate models. Climatic phenomena of interest
include the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO), the Global Monsoon
(GM), and the Inter-Tropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ). The changes in the
state of these climatic systems are consequential to people all around
the planet, and they inform socio-economic decisions at all levels of
societal organization. The ideas we use to infer hidden structure in
climate data fall broadly under the category of Machine Learning (ML)
approaches. ML concepts are inherently suited to the task as they are
designed to identify, classify, and predict complex patterns.

### Contact

To get regular updates about the activities of the group, you can
subscribe to our [RSS
feed](https://mlcs.github.io/feed.xml){:target="_blank"}, follow us on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/MachineClimate){:target="_blank"} and
[Github](https://github.com/mlcs){:target="_blank"}, or simply send us
an [email](mailto:bedartha.goswami@uni-tuebingen.de).

If you are in Tübingen, then simply come by and say hello. We are
located on the 4th floor of the [AI Research
Building](https://www.openstreetmap.org/way/601132358){:target="_blank"}
at Maria-von-Linden-Str. 6.


