---
layout: post
title: Open position for PhD (m/f/d; E13 TV-L, 65%)
subtitle:
tags: [mlcs, jobs, mustein]
---

We are inviting applications for a

**PhD position (m/f/d; E13 TV-L, 65%)**

to develop seasonal forecasts of extreme rainfall events over Germany
and western Europe using spatiotemporal artificial neural networks
(STANNs). The position is funded for three years starting no later than
1 September 2021 and, along with three other PhD projects, is part of
the mini-graduate school Modeling and Understanding SpatioTemporal
Environmental INteractions (MUSTEIN).

MUSTEIN aims at developing machine learning (ML) techniques that
reliably learn explainable models of critical aspects of four highly
interacting spheres, focusing on (i) seasonal weather dynamics (P1),
(ii) river water discharge (P2), (iii) soil erosion (P3), and (iv) solar
thermal systems (P4). The targeted ML-based systems will potentially
allow us to (i) predict environmental system dynamics more accurately
and for longer periods into the future, (ii) anticipate future climatic
developments and prepare accordingly, (iii) partially control the
developments, and (iv) explain the hidden causes and influences in an
accessible, causal manner.

To apply for the position, please follow the instructions given in the
full job announcement
[here](/files/mustein_p1_announcement.pdf){:target="_blank"} or read it
online at [this
link](https://uni-tuebingen.de/en/research/core-research/cluster-of-excellence-machine-learning/home/open-positions/#c1297104){:target="_blank"}.

For any further queries please send an email to Dr. Bedartha Goswami at
[bedartha.goswami@uni-tuebingen.de](mailto:bedartha.goswami@uni-tuebingen.de).


