---
layout: post
title: Seven abstracts accepted to EGU21
subtitle: -
bigimg: /img/vegu21_banner.jpg
tags: [mlcs, conferences, egu]
---

We started receiving the "Letters of Acceptance" emails from EGU
yesterday one by one. Although geoscience conferences are not as strict
as machine learning / computer science / engineering conferences, it was
still really happy news for our group that all of our submitted (!)
abstracts got accepted.

Felix Strnad's study on [the global
monsoon](/files/strnad_felix_EGU21-3245.pdf) got accepted to the
[session AS1.10 on global
monsoons](https://meetingorganizer.copernicus.org/EGU21/session/40839)
and Jakob Schlör's work on [sea surface temperatures on the tropical
Pacific](/files/schloer_jakob_EGU21-12362.pdf) got accepted in [session
CL2.13 - ENSO and tropical basin
interactions](https://meetingorganizer.copernicus.org/EGU21/session/40677).
Lea Elsemüller's work on [the intertropical convergence
zone](/files/elsemueller_lea_EGU21-8187.pdf) got accepted in [session
CL2.6 on energy and moisture
cycles](https://meetingorganizer.copernicus.org/EGU21/session/40788) and
Markus Deppner's work on [river discharge in South
America](/files/deppner_markus_EGU21-10383.pdf) got accepted in [session
CL4.11 on extreme events in the
Andes](https://meetingorganizer.copernicus.org/EGU21/session/40697). 

In addition to this, three collaborative projects involving Bedartha
Goswami got accepted as well. These include: joint work with Manmeet
Singh at IITM Pune on [volcanic fingerprint on ENSO and Indian Monsoon
coupled system](/files/singh_manmeet_EGU21-9059.pdf) (accepted in
[session AS3.25 on understanding volcano-climate
impacts](https://meetingorganizer.copernicus.org/EGU21/session/40861)),
joint work with Sebastian Höpker on [formulating a quantitative
hydrological proxy](files/hoepker_sebastian_EGU21-13057.pdf) (accepted
in [session CL5.).1 on novel quantitative methods for paleoenvironment
reconstructions](https://meetingorganizer.copernicus.org/EGU21/session/40789)),
and joint work with Abhirup Banerjee on [a new recurrence-plot-based
approach to detect coupling between heterogeneous data
types](/files/banerjee_abhirup_EGU21-14831.pdf) (accepted in [session
NP5.2 on complex systems
science](https://meetingorganizer.copernicus.org/EGU21/session/39811)).

Lots of stuff to present this year. Hope to see you there as well!
