---
layout: post
title: Presenting our work at EGU 2023
subtitle:
tags: [mlcs, conferences, egu]
---

This year we have four presentations at [EGU 2023](https://egu23.eu):
two on-site posters, one virtual poster, and an oral presentation. PhD
students [Felix](https://twitter.com/strnad_f),
[Jakob](https://twitter.com/schloer_jakob), and
[Jannik](https://twitter.com/JannikThuemmel) are at Vienna right hnow
presenting their work, meeting colleagues, and getting up to date with
the latest work on weather, climate, and geoscience research.


Jakob presented a poster on his work on a [robust, multimodal
representation of the diversity of ENSO
events](https://meetingorganizer.copernicus.org/EGU23/EGU23-2136.html)
in [CL2.2: ENSO and Tropical Basins Intersections
session](https://meetingorganizer.copernicus.org/EGU23/session/45512). 

Jannik will present a poster tomorrow on his review of state-of-the-art
[deep learning models for weather prediction and their inductive
biases](https://meetingorganizer.copernicus.org/EGU23/EGU23-16186.html).
His poster is in the [CL5.8 session on Machine Learning for CLimate
Science](https://meetingorganizer.copernicus.org/EGU23/session/47140). 

Moritz presented a virtual poster on Monday on his recent paper on
[Empirical Distortions in Climate
Networks](https://meetingorganizer.copernicus.org/EGU23/EGU23-13601.html)
in the [NP4.1 Session on Complex system based time series analysis in
the
geosciences](https://meetingorganizer.copernicus.org/EGU23/session/45682).

Felix presented a talk on his work on the [Boreal Summer Intraseasonal
Oscillation and its relation to Pacific sea surface
temperatures](https://meetingorganizer.copernicus.org/EGU23/EGU23-6671.html)
in the [AS1.24 Monsoon systems in the past and present and
future](https://meetingorganizer.copernicus.org/EGU23/session/46801)
session.
